---
title: Biography
layout: defaults
image: /download/images/gregory-kapfhammer-biography-small.jpg
---

# {{ page.title }}

<!-- include_cached header image -->
{% include_cached _popovers/image_reference.html image="gregory-kapfhammer-biography-small.jpg" content="Photo by <a href='https://www.facebook.com/tkpapinchak'>Tanya Greer</a> shared under a <a href='http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/'>CC (BY-NC-ND)</a>" label="CC (BY-NC-ND)" %}

{% comment %} State current appointment and prior appointments {% endcomment %}

{% describe %}

[Gregory M. Kapfhammer]({{site.baseurl}}) is an Associate Professor in the
[Department of Computer Science](http://www.cs.allegheny.edu) at [Allegheny
College](http://www.allegheny.edu). He earned his PhD from the [Department of
Computer Science](https://cs.pitt.edu) at the [University of
Pittsburgh](http://www.pitt.edu), writing a PhD dissertation that was supervised
by [Mary Lou Soffa](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~soffa/). Kapfhammer also earned
a BSc in Computer Science from Allegheny College and a MSc in Computer Science
from the University of Pittsburgh. Kapfhammer was previously a short-term
visitor in the [Department of Computer Science](http://www.cs.virginia.edu) at
the [University of Virginia](http://www.virginia.edu), the [Institute of Applied
Information Processing](http://iai.mathematik.uni-ulm.de/en/index.html) at the
[University of Ulm](http://www.uni-ulm.de/en), and the [Department of Computer
Science](https://www.sheffield.ac.uk/dcs) at the [University of
Sheffield](http://www.sheffield.ac.uk/). In a prior position, Gregory Kapfhammer
was a research associate at Cigital, a software company that was acquired by
[Synopsys](https://www.synopsys.com/).

{% enddescribe %}

{% comment %} Explain teaching areas and educational software {% endcomment %}

As an educator, Gregory Kapfhammer develops and teaches
[courses]({{site.baseurl}}teaching/) in the areas of software engineering,
software testing, web development, data management, operating systems, and
distributed systems. He is also a research adviser for undergraduate and
graduate theses. Kapfhammer's expertise in teaching was recognized when
Allegheny College presented him with the [Thoburn Award for Excellence in
Teaching](https://sites.allegheny.edu/alumni/award-recipients/#thoburn). As a
leader of several software engineering teams, Kapfhammer creates useful
educational [software]({{site.baseurl}}software/) tools that effectively support
tasks such as project assessment and team formation.

{% comment %} Summarize research service {% endcomment %}

Working as an experimental computer scientist, Gregory Kapfhammer conducts
[research]({{site.baseurl}}research/) in areas such as software engineering and
software testing. Collaborating with a diverse and skilled group of students and
colleagues, Kapfhammer completes research that results in award-winning and
frequently cited research [papers]({{site.baseurl}}research/papers/),
oft-complimented [presentations]({{site.baseurl}}research/presentations/),
useful free and open-source [software]({{site.baseurl}}software/), and valued
[service]({{site.baseurl}}service/) to a variety of organizations. He is an
associate editor for the [Journal of Software: Evolution and
Process](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/20477481), an academic editor
for the [PeerJ Computer Science](https://peerj.com/computer-science/) journal, a
program committee member for conferences like the [International Conference on
Software Testing, Verification and
Validation](https://cs.gmu.edu/icst/index.html), and a reviewer for journals
such as [Transactions on Software
Engineering](https://www.computer.org/csdl/journal/ts). Along with serving as a
review panelist at the U.S. National Science Foundation, Kapfhammer works as a
program chair and general chair for international workshops and conferences.

{% comment %} Describe published papers and research awards {% endcomment %}

<p>

Kapfhammer collaboratively publishes papers, such as {% include_cached
_popovers/paper_reference.html cite="Walsh2017" trailing="," %} {%
include_cached _popovers/paper_reference.html cite="Alsharif2018" trailing=","
%} and {% include_cached _popovers/paper_reference.html cite="McMinn2019"
trailing="," %} at venues like the <a href =
"https://conf.researchr.org/series/issta">International Symposium on Software
Testing and Analysis</a>, the <a href =
"https://cs.gmu.edu/icst/index.html">International Conference on Software
Testing, Verification and Validation</a>, and <a href =
"https://www.computer.org/csdl/journal/ts">Transactions on Software
Engineering</a>, respectively. Kapfhammer's paper {% include_cached
_popovers/paper_reference.html cite="Kapfhammer2003" %} received the ACM SIGSOFT
Distinguished Paper Award at the <a href="http://esecfse.cs.helsinki.fi/">ACM
SIGSOFT Foundations of Software Engineering Conference (ESEC/FSE 2003)</a>.
Gregory Kapfhammer's paper {% include_cached _popovers/paper_reference.html
cite="Conrad2010a" %} was also recognized as the best paper in the <a
href="http://www.sigevo.org/gecco-2010/organizers-tracks.html#sbse">Search-Based
Software Engineering Track</a> of the <a
href="http://www.sigevo.org/gecco-2010/">ACM SIGEVO Genetic and Evolutionary
Computation Conference (GECCO 2010)</a>. Kapfhammer's presentation for {%
include_cached _popovers/paper_reference.html cite="Kapfhammer2016" %} won the
best presentation award at the <a href="https://cse.sc.edu/~ggay/sbst2016/">9th
International Workshop on Search-Based Software Testing (SBST 2016)</a>.
Finally, Kapfhammer's paper {% include_cached _popovers/paper_reference.html
cite="Althomali2019" trailing="," %} published at the <a href =
"http://icst2019.xjtu.edu.cn/index.htm">12th International International
Conference on Software Testing, Verification and Validation (ICST 2019)</a>, won
the Distinguished Paper Award from the <a href = "http://www.cs-tcse.org/">IEEE
Technical Council on Software Engineering</a>.

</p>

As an outworking of his Christian faith, Gregory Kapfhammer's endeavors are
guided by the following professional principles:

<b>Principle 1 (Selfless Service)</b>: Focus on the needs of your students and
colleagues before considering your own. Commit to respectfully serving others
even when your actions are unlikely to be noticed, rewarded, or beneficial to
your own professional development.

<b>Principle 2 (Absolute Excellence)</b>: Devote yourself and encourage others
to commit themselves to uncompromising excellence in all aspects of personal and
professional development.

<b>Principle 3 (Relentless Effort)</b>: Unless the opportunity cost of further
effort is prohibitively high, work hard towards the accomplishment of the goals
you set &mdash; and help others to do the same.

<b>Principle 4 (Realistic Expectations)</b>: Recognize that all people,
including yourself, have fundamental strengths and weaknesses. Identify the
strengths in your own life and the lives of others and plan activities so as to
maximize the positive impact on the community.

<b>Principle 5 (Contagious Joy)</b>: Pursue everything with passion and
enthusiasm. Take advantage of every opportunity to encourage your students and
colleagues. Always end a conversation or a meeting with a positive remark.
