---
id: -36
title: Computer Science 100, Fall 2018
subtitle: Computational Expression
layout: course_n
course: true
featured: false
image: /download/images/25677203702_ccac0cba9f_z.jpg
---

# {{page.title}}
## {{page.subtitle}}

<!-- Include header image -->
{% include _popovers/image_reference.html image="25677203702_ccac0cba9f_z.jpg" content="<a title='wocintech stock - 69' href='https://flickr.com/photos/wocintechchat/25677203702'>flickr photo</a> by <a href='https://flickr.com/people/wocintechchat'>wocintechchat.com</a> shared under a <a href='https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/'>Creative Commons (BY) license</a> </small>" label="CC (BY)" %}

{% describe %}
An introduction to the principles of computer science with an emphasis on
creative expression through the medium of a programming language. Participating
in hands-on activities that often require teamwork, students learn the
computational structures needed to solve problems and produce artifacts such as
interactive games and computer-mediated art and music. Students also learn how
to organize and document a program’s source code so that it effectively
communicates with the intended users and maintainers. Additionally, the
introduction includes an overview of the discipline of computer science and
computational thinking. During a weekly laboratory session students use
state-of-the-art technology to complete projects, reporting on their results
through both written documents and oral presentations. Prerequisite: Knowledge
of elementary algebra. Distribution Requirements: ME, SP.
{% enddescribe %}

## Course Resources

<ul class="fa-ul">

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="https://github.com/Allegheny-Computer-Science-100-F2018/cs100-F2018-syllabus/releases/download/cs100F2018_syllabus-1.0.0/cs100F2018_syllabus.pdf"
class="major">Course Syllabus</a>: Learn about the objectives, policies, and structure of the course.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs100F2018/schedule/"
class="major">Course Schedule</a>: See the course topics, find reading assignments, and see slides.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs100F2018/laboratories/"
class="major">Laboratory Assignments</a>: Access all of the materials for the laboratory sessions.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs100F2018/practicals/"
class="major">Practical Assignments</a>: Access all of the materials for the practical sessions.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs100F2018/studyguides/"
class="major">Study Guides</a>: See the topics that you should study for a quiz or an examination.

</ul>
