---
id: -35
title: Computer Science 101, Fall 2018
subtitle: Data Abstraction
layout: course_n
course: true
featured: false
image: /download/images/2527201913_c35dd75dda_z.jpg
---

# {{page.title}}
## {{page.subtitle}}

<!-- Include header image -->
{% include _popovers/image_reference.html image="2527201913_c35dd75dda_z.jpg" content="<a title='faux bricks' href='https://flickr.com/photos/rj3/2527201913'>flickr photo</a> by <a href='https://flickr.com/people/rj3'>'Cowboy' Ben Alman</a> shared under a <a href='https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/2.0/'>Creative Commons (BY-NC-ND) license</a> </small>" label="CC (BY-NC-ND)" %}

{% describe %}
A continuation of CMPSC 100 with an emphasis on implementing, using, and
evaluating the computational structures needed to efficiently store and retrieve
digital data. Participating in hands-on activities that often require teamwork,
students create data structures and algorithms whose correctness and performance
they study through proofs and experimentation. Students continue to refine their
ability to organize and document a program’s source code so that it effectively
communicates with the intended users and maintainers. During a weekly laboratory
session, students use state-of-the-art technology to complete projects,
reporting on their results through both written documents and oral
presentations. Prerequisite: CMPSC 100 or permission of the instructor.
Distribution Requirements: QR, SP.
{% enddescribe %}

## Course Resources

<ul class="fa-ul">

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="https://github.com/Allegheny-Computer-Science-101-F2018/cs101-F2018-syllabus/releases/download/cs101F2018_syllabus-1.0.1/cs101F2018_syllabus.pdf"
class="major">Course Syllabus</a>: Learn about the objectives, policies, and structure of the course.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs101F2018/schedule/"
class="major">Course Schedule</a>: See the course topics, find reading assignments, and see slides.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs101F2018/laboratories/"
class="major">Laboratory Assignments</a>: Access all of the materials for the laboratory sessions.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs101F2018/practicals/"
class="major">Practical Assignments</a>: Access all of the materials for the practical sessions.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs101F2018/studyguides/"
class="major">Study Guides</a>: See the topics that you should study for a quiz or an examination.

</ul>
