---
id: -28
title: Computer Science 111, Spring 2017
subtitle: Introduction to Computer Science I
layout: course_n
course: true
featured: false
---

# {{page.title}}
## {{page.subtitle}}

<!-- Include header image -->
{% include _popovers/image_reference.html image="25677176162_ecd7ffb784_z.jpg" content="<a title='wocintech stock - 34' href='https://flickr.com/photos/wocintechchat/25677176162'>flickr photo</a> by <a href='https://flickr.com/people/wocintechchat'>wocintechchat.com</a> shared under a <a href='https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/'>CC (BY) license</a>" label="CC (BY)" %}

{% describe %}
An introduction to the principles of computer science with an emphasis on creative expression through the medium of a
programming language. Participating in hands-on activities that often require teamwork, students learn the computational
structures needed to solve problems and produce artifacts such as interactive games and computer-mediated art and music.
Students also learn how to organize and document a program's source code so that it effectively communicates with the
intended users and maintainers. Additionally, the introduction includes an overview of the discipline of computer
science and computational thinking. One laboratory per week. Prerequisite: Knowledge of elementary algebra. Distribution
Requirements: ME, SP.
{% enddescribe %}

## Course Resources

<ul class="fa-ul">

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs111S2017/provide/syllabus/cs111S2017_syllabus.pdf"
class="major">Course Syllabus</a>: Learn about the objectives, policies, and structure of the course.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs111S2017/schedule/"
class="major">Course Schedule</a>: See the course topics, find reading assignments, and review slides.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs111S2017/laboratories/"
class="major">Laboratory Assignments</a>: Access all of the materials for the laboratory sessions.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs111S2017/practicals/"
class="major">Practical Assignments</a>: Access all of the materials for the practical sessions.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs111S2017/studyguides/"
class="major">Study Guides</a>: See the topics that you should study for a quiz or an examination.

</ul>
