---
id: -14
title: Computer Science 111, Fall 2014
subtitle: Introduction to Computer Science I
layout: course_n
course: true
image: /download/images/2681686220_1f39f404f4_z.jpg
---

# {{page.title}}
## {{page.subtitle}}

<!-- Include header image -->
{% include _popovers/image_reference.html image="2681686220_1f39f404f4_z.jpg" content="<a href='http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/2.0/'>CC (BY-NC-SA)</a> <a title='Thinking about the code' href='http://flickr.com/photos/yourdon/2681686220'>flickr photo</a> shared by <a href='http://flickr.com/people/yourdon'>Ed Yourdon</a>" label="CC (BY-NC-SA)" %}

## Course Description

{% describe %}
An introduction to the principles of computer science with an emphasis on algorithmic problem solving and the
realization of algorithms using a modern object-oriented programming language. Topics include algorithms, problem
solving, programming, classes, primitive data types and objects, control structures, arrays and vectors, principles of
object-oriented design and programming, and an introduction to graphics and graphical user interfaces. The course also
includes an overview of the discipline of computer science and a study of the social implications of computer use. May
serve as the laboratory course in the Natural Science Division’s distribution requirement. One laboratory per week.
Prerequisite: Knowledge of elementary algebra.
{% enddescribe %}

## Course Resources

<ul class="fa-ul">

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs111F2014/provide/syllabus/cs111F2014-syllabus.pdf"
class="major">Course Syllabus</a>: Learn about the objectives, policies, and structure of the course.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs111F2014/schedule/"
class="major">Course Schedule</a>: See the course topics, find reading assignments, and review slides.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs111F2014/laboratories/"
class="major">Laboratory Assignments</a>: Access all of the materials for the laboratory sessions.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs111F2014/practicals/"
class="major">Practical Assignments</a>: Access all of the materials for the practical sessions.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs111F2014/officehours/"
class="major">Office Hours</a>: Find out when the teaching assistants and tutors are available.

</ul>
