---
id: -20
title: Computer Science 111, Fall 2015
subtitle: Introduction to Computer Science
layout: course_n
course: true
image: /download/images/10495663786_1db299f49d_z.jpg
---

{% capture page_title %} {{page.title}} {% endcapture %}
{% capture page_subtitle %} {{page.subtitle}} {% endcapture %}
{% include _jumbotrons/head_jumbotron_teach.html title=page_title subtitle=page_subtitle %}

## Description

{% describe %}
An introduction to the principles of computer science with an emphasis on algorithmic problem solving and the
realization of algorithms using a modern object-oriented programming language. Topics include algorithms, problem
solving, programming, classes, primitive data types and objects, control structures, arrays and vectors, principles of
object-oriented design and programming, and an introduction to graphics and graphical user interfaces. The course also
includes an overview of the discipline of computer science and a study of the social implications of computer use. May
serve as the laboratory course in the Natural Science Division’s distribution requirement. One laboratory per week.
Prerequisite: Knowledge of elementary algebra.
{% enddescribe %}

## Resources

<ul class="fa-ul">

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs111F2015/provide/syllabus/cs111F2015_syllabus.pdf"
class="major">Course Syllabus</a>: Learn about the objectives, policies, and structure of the course.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs111F2015/schedule/"
class="major">Course Schedule</a>: See the course topics, find reading assignments, and review slides.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs111F2015/laboratories/"
class="major">Laboratory Assignments</a>: Access all of the materials for the laboratory sessions.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs111F2015/practicals/"
class="major">Practical Assignments</a>: Access all of the materials for the practical sessions.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs111F2015/studyguides/"
class="major">Study Guides</a>: See the topics that you should study for a quiz or an examination.

</ul>

