---
id: -33
title: Computer Science 112, Spring 2018
subtitle: Introduction to Computer Science II
layout: course_n
course: true
featured: false
---

# {{page.title}}
## {{page.subtitle}}

<!-- Include header image -->
{% include _popovers/image_reference.html image="36889356713_af3ef38e74_z.jpg" content="<a title='L1004446' href='https://flickr.com/photos/101438866@N04/36889356713'>flickr photo by</a> by <a href='https://flickr.com/people/101438866@N04'>physician1977</a> shared under a <a href='https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/'>CC Public Domain Dedication (CC0)</a>" label="CC (CC0)" %}

{% describe %}
A continuation of CMPSC 111 with an emphasis on implementing, using, and
evaluating the computational structures needed to efficiently store and
retrieve digital data. Participating in hands-on activities that often require
teamwork, students create data structures and algorithms whose correctness and
performance they study through proofs and experimentation. Students continue to
refine their ability to organize and document a program's source code so that it
effectively communicates with the intended users and maintainers. During a
weekly laboratory session, students use state-of-the-art technology to complete
projects, reporting on their results through both written reports and oral
presentations. Prerequisite: CMPSC 111 or permission of the instructor.
Distribution Requirements: QR, SP.
{% enddescribe %}

## Course Resources

<ul class="fa-ul">

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="https://github.com/Allegheny-Computer-Science-112-S2018/cs112-S2018-syllabus/releases/download/cs112S2018_syllabus-1.0.0/cs112S2018_syllabus.pdf"
class="major">Course Syllabus</a>: Learn about the objectives, policies, and structure of the course.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs112S2018/schedule/"
class="major">Course Schedule</a>: See the course topics, find reading assignments, and see slides.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs112S2018/laboratories/"
class="major">Laboratory Assignments</a>: Access all of the materials for the laboratory sessions.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs112S2018/practicals/"
class="major">Practical Assignments</a>: Access all of the materials for the practical sessions.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs112S2018/studyguides/"
class="major">Study Guides</a>: See the topics that you should study for a quiz or an examination.

</ul>
