---
id: -32
title: Computer Science 111, Fall 2017
subtitle: Introduction to Computer Science I
layout: course_n
course: true
featured: false
---

# {{page.title}}
## {{page.subtitle}}

<!-- Include header image -->
{% include _popovers/image_reference.html image="32718254631_2df18dccb2_z.jpg" content="<a title='Learning Data Structures' href='https://flickr.com/photos/gregkapfhammer/32718254631'>flickr photo</a> by <a href='https://flickr.com/people/gregkapfhammer'>GregKapfhammer</a> shared under a <a href='https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/2.0/'>CC (BY-NC-ND) license</a>" label="CC (BY-NC-ND)" %}

{% describe %}
An introduction to the principles of computer science with an emphasis on creative expression through the medium of a
programming language. Participating in hands-on activities that often require teamwork, students learn the computational
structures needed to solve problems and produce artifacts such as interactive games and computer-mediated art and music.
Students also learn how to organize and document a program's source code so that it effectively communicates with the
intended users and maintainers. Additionally, the introduction includes an overview of the discipline of computer
science and computational thinking. During a weekly laboratory session students use state-of-the-art technology to
complete projects, reporting on their results through both written reports and oral presentations. Prerequisite:
Knowledge of elementary algebra. Distribution Requirements: ME, SP.
{% enddescribe %}

## Course Resources

<ul class="fa-ul">

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="https://github.com/Allegheny-Computer-Science-111-F2017/cs111-F2017-syllabus/releases/download/cs111F2017_syllabus-1.0.5/cs111F2017_syllabus.pdf"
class="major">Course Syllabus</a>: Learn about the objectives, policies, and structure of the course.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs111F2017/schedule/"
class="major">Course Schedule</a>: See the course topics, find reading assignments, and see slides.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs111F2017/laboratories/"
class="major">Laboratory Assignments</a>: Access all of the materials for the laboratory sessions.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs111F2017/practicals/"
class="major">Practical Assignments</a>: Access all of the materials for the practical sessions.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs111F2017/studyguides/"
class="major">Study Guides</a>: See the topics that you should study for a quiz or an examination.

</ul>
