---
id: -39
title: Computer Science 203, Spring 2019
subtitle: Software Engineering
layout: course_n
course: true
featured: true
image: /download/images/44892077674_edd77c2fa7_z.jpg
---

# {{page.title}}
## {{page.subtitle}}

<!-- Include header image -->
{% include _popovers/image_reference.html image="44892077674_edd77c2fa7_z.jpg" content="<a title='Triangles 1' href='https://flickr.com/photos/165551863@N02/44892077674'>Triangles 1</a> flickr photo by <a href='https://flickr.com/people/165551863@N02'>vincentag</a> shared under a <a href='https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/2.0/'>Creative Commons (BY-NC-ND) license</a>" label="CC (BY-NC-ND)" %}

{% describe %}
A human-centric study of the principles used during the engineering of
high-quality software systems. In addition to examining the human behaviors and
social processes undergirding software development methodologies, students
participate in teams tasked with designing, developing, and delivering a
significant software application for a customer. During a weekly laboratory
session, students use state-of-the-art software engineering, management, and
communication tools to complete projects, reporting on their results through
both written documents and oral presentations. Prerequisite: CMPSC
101. Distribution Requirements: SB, SP.
{% enddescribe %}

## Course Resources

<ul class="fa-ul">

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href=""
class="major">Course Syllabus</a>: Learn about the objectives, policies, and structure of the course.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs203S2019/schedule/"
class="major">Course Schedule</a>: See the course topics, find reading assignments, and review slides.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs203S2019/laboratories/"
class="major">Laboratory Assignments</a>: Access all of the materials for the laboratory sessions.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs203S2019/practicals/"
class="major">Practical Assignments</a>: Access all of the materials for the practical sessions.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs203S2019/studyguides/"
class="major">Study Guides</a>: See the topics that you should study for a quiz or an examination.

</ul>
