---
id: -42
title: Computer Science 203, Spring 2020
subtitle: Software Engineering
layout: course_n
course: true
featured: true
image: /download/images/33384813385_1ebe3e5352_z.jpg
---

{% capture page_title %} {{page.title}} {% endcapture %}
{% capture page_subtitle %} {{page.subtitle}} {% endcapture %}
{% include _jumbotrons/head_jumbotron_teach.html title=page_title subtitle=page_subtitle %}

## Description

{% describe %}
A human-centric study of the principles used during the engineering of
high-quality software systems. In addition to examining the human behaviors and
social processes undergirding software development methodologies, students
participate in teams tasked with designing, developing, and delivering a
significant software application for a customer. During a weekly laboratory
session, students use state-of-the-art software engineering, management, and
communication tools to complete projects, reporting on their results through
both written documents and oral presentations. Prerequisite: CMPSC
101. Distribution Requirements: SB, SP.
{% enddescribe %}

## Resources

<ul>

<li><a href="https://github.com/Allegheny-Computer-Science-203-S2020/cs203-S2020-syllabus/releases/download/cs203S2020-syllabus-1.0.0/cs203S2020_syllabus.pdf"
class="major">Course Syllabus</a>: Learn about the objectives, policies, and structure of the course.</li>

<li><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs203S2020/schedule/"
class="major">Course Schedule</a>: See the course topics, find reading assignments, and review slides.</li>

<li><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs203S2020/laboratories/"
class="major">Software Projects</a>: Access all of the materials for the software projects.</li>

<li><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs203S2020/practicals/"
class="major">Practical Assignments</a>: Access all of the materials for the practical sessions.</li>

<li><a href="{{site.baseurl}}teaching/cs203S2020/studyguides/"
class="major">Study Guides</a>: See the topics that you should study for a quiz or an examination.</li>

</ul>
