---
id: -38
title: Computer Science 302, Spring 2019
subtitle: Web Development
layout: course_n
course: true
featured: false
image: /download/images/30771680967_d8cf4f5ee9_z.jpg
---

# {{page.title}}
## {{page.subtitle}}

<!-- Include header image -->
{% include _popovers/image_reference.html image="30771680967_d8cf4f5ee9_z.jpg" content="<a title='Up right corner' href='https://flickr.com/photos/165551863@N02/30771680967'>Up right corner</a> flickr photo by <a href='https://flickr.com/people/165551863@N02'>vincentag</a> shared under a <a href='https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/2.0/'>Creative Commons (BY-NC-ND) license</a>" label="CC (BY-NC-ND)" %}

{% describe %}
An introduction to the principles and applications of computer science with an
emphasis on understanding intercultural perspectives that arise during the
design, implementation, and maintenance of mobile-ready web sites.
Participating in hands-on activities that often require teamwork, students
learn the computational methods needed to create web sites that are useful to
people from different cultures and nationalities. Students also investigate
approaches to developing efficient, accessible, and aesthetically pleasing web
sites that adhere to the international standards set by the World Wide Web
Consortium. During a weekly laboratory session students use state-of-the-art
web development technologies to complete projects, reporting on their results
through both written documents and oral presentations. Prerequisite: FS 102 or
permission of the instructor. Distribution Requirements: IP, SP.
{% enddescribe %}

## Course Resources

<ul class="fa-ul">

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href=""
class="major">Course Syllabus</a>: Learn about the objectives, policies, and structure of the course.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="/teaching/cs302S2019/schedule/"
class="major">Course Schedule</a>: See the course topics, find reading assignments, and see slides.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="/teaching/cs302S2019/laboratories/"
class="major">Laboratory Assignments</a>: Access all of the materials for the laboratory sessions.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="/teaching/cs302S2019/practicals/"
class="major">Practical Assignments</a>: Access all of the materials for the practical sessions.

<li><i class="fa-li fa fa-arrow-right"></i><a href="/teaching/cs302S2019/studyguides/"
class="major">Study Guides</a>: See the topics that you should study for a quiz or an examination.

</ul>
