---
title: A launching pad for search-based software engineering
layout: blog_n
categories: [research, software, tool]
author: Gregory M. Kapfhammer
image: /download/images/4355495106_53aed3b0da_z.jpg
---

{% include_cached _headers/blog_header.html %}

<!-- include_cached header image -->
{% include_cached _popovers/image_reference.html image="4355495106_53aed3b0da_z.jpg" content="<a title='Hot Air Balloon Launch' href='https://flickr.com/photos/inserttitlehere/4355495106'>flickr photo</a> by <a href='https://flickr.com/people/inserttitlehere'>Insert Photographer Here</a> shared under a <a href='https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/2.0/'>CC (BY-NC-ND) license</a>" label="CC (BY-NC-ND)" %}

{% describe %}
Prior research and development experiences have proven the Alternating Variable Method (AVM) to be a fast and effective
local search technique for search-based software engineering. Moreover, recent improvements to the AVM have generalized
the representations it can optimize and have provably reduced its running time. However, until recently, there has been no
general, publicly-available implementation of the AVM incorporating all of these developments.
{% enddescribe %}

<p>
I am pleased to report that {% include_cached _popovers/paper_reference.html
cite="McMinn2016b" %} introduced AVMf, an object-oriented framework that
provides an implementation of the AVM in the Java programming language. AVMf is
available from <a href="https://github.com/AVMf/avmf">AVMf/avmf</a> for
configuration and use in a wide variety of projects.
</p>

My hope is that AVMf can serve as a "launching pad" for new research and
development in search-based software engineering (SBSE). So, do you have a new
search-based method but are dreading the creation of a bespoke system? Are you
interested in learning how to use an AVM? Or, do you have an idea for a new
SBSE example that we should integrate into the tool? If yes, then please try
AVMf and [contact]({{site.baseurl}}contact/) me to share your ideas!

{% include_cached _footers/blog_footer.html %}
